PD-347   SCALE CLI - Create Network IPMI Article (#2078)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALECLIReference/Network/CLIIPMI.md

{{< toc >}}

{{< include file="/_includes/CLIGuideWIP.md" type="page" >}}

## IPMI Namespace

The **ipmi** namespace has four commands and is based on user functions found in the SCALE API and web UI.
It provides access to IPMI (Intelligent Platform Management Interface) configuration and management options.

## IPMI Commands

The following **ipmi** namespace commands allow you to configure and manage IPMI access.

You can enter commands from the main CLI prompt or from the **network** namespace prompt.

### Channels Command

The `channels` command returns a list of available IPMI channels.

{{< expand "Viewing Available Channels" "v" >}}

#### Description

The `channels` command does not require entering properties or arguments.
Enter the command, then press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

> The command returns a number showing how many IPMI channels the system has available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command returns the number of IPMI channels the system has available.
```

| channel | id | ip_address_source | ip_address  | mac_address       | subnet_mask   | default_gateway_ip_address | default_gateway_mac_address | backup_gateway_ip_address | backup_gateway_mac_address | vlan_id | vlan_id_enable | vlan_priority |
+---------+----+-------------------+-------------+-------------------+---------------+----------------------------+-----------------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+---------+----------------+---------------+
| 1       | 1  | static            | 10.10.10.10 | 3c:ec:de:5b:5e:70 | 255.255.255.0 | 10.200.0.1                 | 00:00:00:00:00:00           | 0.0.0.0                   | 00:00:00:00:00:00          | 0       | false          | 0             |
+---------+----+-------------------+-------------+-------------------+---------------+----------------------------+-----------------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+---------+----------------+---------------+
```
{{< /expand >}}
{{< /expand >}}

### Update Command

The `update` command allows you to update the settings for a specified IPMI instance.

{{< expand "Updating IPMI Settings" "v" >}}

#### Description

> The `update` command has six configuration properties. They are ipaddress, netmask, gateway, password, dhcp, and vlan.

Reviewer 2: are these required or optional? Are they shared with the create command? these properties listed should be in the command emphasis. You can put a reference to the table as well.
```suggestion
The `update` command has six configuration properties. They are `ipaddress`, `netmask`, `gateway`, `password`, `dhcp`, and `vlan` explained in detail in **Update Properties** below.
```

> You must enter a channel and at least one of the properties for the command to succeed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must enter a channel and at least one property for the command to succeed.
```

Enter the command string, then press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

> The command returns nothing when successful.

Reviewer: I believe the text we've standardized on for this type of command reply is "The command returns a blank line."

{{< expand "Update Properties" "v" >}}

{{< truetable >}}
| Property | Description | Syntax Example |
|-------------|-------------|-------------|

> | `ipaddress` | IPv4 address to assign to the channel. | <code>ipaddress=<i>"ipaddress"</i></code> |

Reviewer 2: the double quotes are required in the syntax so move outside the italics tags. 
```suggestion
| `ipaddress` | IPv4 address to assign to the channel. | <code>ipaddress="<i>ipaddress</i>"</code> |
```

| `netmask` | Subnet mask associated with the IP address. | <code>netmask=<i>"expandednetmask"</i></code> |

> | `gateway` | IPv4 address used by the `ipaddress` to reach outside the local subnet. | <code>gateway=<i>"gateway"</i></code> |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `gateway` | IPv4 address used by the `ipaddress` to reach outside the local subnet. | <code>gateway="<i>gateway</i>"</code> |
```

> | `password` | Password to assign to the channel. | <code>password=<i>password</i></code> |

Reviewer 2: does this one require double quotes? what if they include a special character in the password?

Author: No quotes for this one. I'll enter the rules for it.
